today we're here to present the city of
Gardena municipal bus line with the
coveted thermal King leader and energy
efficiency award their commitment to
environmental awareness sustainability
energy efficiency and the timeline
associated with that really set them up
as a leader in that area Gardena
municipal bus line operates what I
believe is the only fleet in the nation
that is 100 percent gasoline hybrid
electric propulsion this bus behind me
is irreverent is an example and our
commitment to energy efficiency is also
demonstrated by the canopy outside in
the yard which is our photovoltaic solar
panel system that generates about 10% of
this facility's overall energy needs
they've not only made the investments in
the hybrid gasoline hybrid buses what
they've also invested in is our facility
if you look at the property in the depot
they actually got train control systems
they've got training air conditioning
and they've spent the money and taking
the time to really implement full
legitimate lead silver facility we're
very proud of the fact that our
municipality is a leader on the
energy-saving trend and a lot of other
cities have contacted us to basically
follow suit this is the power plant for
the all-electric bus it has a small
gasoline driven engine and it has all
the electronics to provide 230 volts AC
to this HVAC unit like the engine the
transmission the HVAC is a major
component no HVAC no bus that day so the
reliability really helps keeps buses on
the street well I think so the big
benefits with the would be the fact that
it's an electric drive is we don't have
the gear shifting going on we don't a
big noisy diesel engine running in the
background so it's a much quieter
smoother ride the thermal King electric
air conditioning systems have generated
about an 8% reduction in overall fuel
consumption which is a very significant
cost over the long haul especially given
the price of gasoline today we are
really seeing right now a gathering
storm of interest around electric HVAC
technology to the point where I think in
another five or six years we believe
it'll become almost a standard within
the transit industry everybody in
gardenia should feel proud of that I
think they've gone a long way to help
convince a very conservative industry
that it is worth changing and there are
better technologies out there for the
future I would like to present today the
thermal King energy efficiency leader
award to Gardena municipal bus line for
outstanding achievement around
environmental sustainability energy and
operational efficiency I think this is a
great success story at the city grid you
know with thermal King it's an example
of where through collaboration we've
been able to help them achieve something
special
you